README.md, before:

# ABLUnit Test Runner [![CircleCI](https://img.shields.io/circleci/build/github/kenherring/ablunit-test-provider/main?logo=circleci)](https://dl.circleci.com/status-badge/redirect/gh/kenherring/ablunit-test-provider/tree/main) [![Maintainability Rating](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=kenherring_ablunit-test-provider&metric=sqale_rating)](https://sonarcloud.io/summary/new_code?id=kenherring_ablunit-test-provider) [![Coverage](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=kenherring_ablunit-test-provider&metric=coverage)](https://sonarcloud.io/summary/new_code?id=kenherring_ablunit-test-provider)


This VSCode test provider extension integrates [ABLUnit tests](https://docs.progress.com/bundle/openedge-developer-studio-help-122/page/Learn-About-ABLUnit-Test-Framework.html) into the VSCode test explorer.

This is my first VSCode extension, and my first TypeScript project. I'm sure there are many ways to improve the code, and I welcome any feedback.  I'm also open to collaboration if anyone is interested.

Quality code, and thus unit testing, is my passion  I hope this extension helps others to embrace [TDD](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Test-driven_development) and improve their code.

## OpenEdge Versions Note

This project was developed using the [Progress OpenEdge Developers Kit: Classroom Edition](https://www.progress.com/openedge/classroom-edition).  That means it's only been tested against version 12.2 at the moment.  Feel free to report any bugs you may run into with other versions.

## Extension

### Features

* Run ABLUnit Tests
* See test results in VSCode Test Explorer
* View code coverage highlighting in the editor

#### Code Coverage Example Screenshot

![code coverage example screenshot](https://github.com/kenherring/ablunit-test-provider/raw/main/docs/coverage.png)

## Configuration

The configuration is broken into two sections.

1.  The first section shows configuration options that users are most likely to change.
2.  Additional configuration options available that are not likely to be change by most users.

### Configuration - Most Commonly Changed

| Setting | Default | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `ablunit.params` | | Additional options/parameters passed to `_progres`.  This is most useful for providing database connections. Example: `-pf path/to/dbconnections.pf` |
| `ablunit.files.include` | `[ "**/*.{cls,p}" ]` | Glob pattern array to include test files |
| `ablunit.files.exclude` | `[ "**/.builder/**" ]` | Glob pattern array to exclude test files |
| `ablunit.findAllFilesAtStartup` | `true` | Search all workspace files for test cases.  It may be beneficial to disable this for large workspaces, in which case the extension will find tests as files are accessed. |
| `ablunit.notificationsEnabled` | `true` | Enable/disable notifications |
| `ablunit.tempDir` | Extension storage area | Any files generated when running ABLUnit will be stored here.  It is also used for the [`-T`](https://docs.progress.com/bundle/openedge-startup-and-parameter-reference-122/page/Temporary-Directory-T.html) startup parameter |

### Configuration - Additional Options

| Setting | Default | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `ablunit.display.classLabel` | `classname` | `[ "classname" \| "filename" ]` |
| `ablunit.importOpenedgeProjectJson` | `true` | Import settings from `openedge-project.json` |
| `ablunit.progressIniPath` | | Path to a `progress.ini` file.  Exclusive to Windows. |
| `ablunit.tests.command` | `_progres -b -p ABLUnitCore.p <...>` | This setting can be used to run tests with any existing shell command your tests are configured to run with.  Example: `ant test` |
| `ablunit.tests.task` | | Use this task to run tests via VSCode |
| `ablunit.configJson.configPath` | `ablunit.json` | |
| `ablunit.configJson.outputLocation` | `results.xml` | Output location for the xml generated by ABLUnit.  Typically used with `ablunit.tests.command` |
| `ablunit.configJson.outputWriteJson` | `false` | Output `results.json` version of `results.xml` after analysis |
| `ablunit.configJson.quitOnEnd` | `true` | Quit the session when the test run is complete |
| `ablunit.configJson.writeLog` | `true` | If `writeLog` is true then a log file, `ablunit.log` is created in the current working directory and writes error messages to that log file |
| `ablunit.configJson.showErrorMessage` | `false` | If `showErrorMessage` is set to true then the error messages is displayed in a new window |
| `ablunit.configJson.throwError` | `true` | If ABLUnit is used as a library inside another program, set `throwError` to true, the framework displays the errors occurred |
| `ablunit.profilerOptions.optionsPath` | `profile.options` | See the [`-profile`](https://docs.progress.com/bundle/openedge-startup-and-parameter-reference-122/page/Profiler-profile.html) startup parameter |
| `ablunit.profilerOptions.enabled` | `true` | Enable the profiler<br>See the [`PROFILER:ENABLED`](https://docs.progress.com/bundle/abl-reference/page/ENABLED-attribute.html) attribute |
| `ablunit.profilerOptions.description` | `Unit Tests Run via ABLUnit Test Runner (VSCode)` | Description assigned to the profiler output<br>See the [`PROFILER:DESCRIPTION`](https://docs.progress.com/bundle/abl-reference/page/DESCRIPTION-attribute.html) attribute |
| `ablunit.profilerOptions.filename` | `prof.out` | Location of the profiler results (`-outfile <outfile>`)<br>See the [`PROFILER:FILE-NAME`](https://docs.progress.com/bundle/abl-reference/page/FILE-NAME-attribute.html) attribute |
| `ablunit.profilerOptions.listings` |  | Flag to output debug listings (`-listings`)<br>When unset (default value) no listings will be output.  When set to `"true"` listings will be output to the `${config:ablunit.tempDir}/listings` directory.<br><ul><li>See the [`PROFILER:LISTINGS`](https://docs.progress.com/bundle/abl-reference/page/LISTINGS-attribute.html) attribute</li><li>See the [`PROFILER:DIRECTORY`](https://docs.progress.com/bundle/abl-reference/page/DIRECTORY-attribute.html) attribute</li></ul> |
| `ablunit.profilerOptions.directory` | | The directory to which the listings files are written (`-directory <dirname>`)<br>When set to blank or not set the `${config:ablunit.tempDir}/listings` diretory will be used.<br> |
| `ablunit.profilerOptions.statistics` | `false` | Flag to output statistics (`-statistics`)<br>See the [`PROFILER:STATISTICS`](https://docs.progress.com/bundle/abl-reference/page/STATISTICS-attribute.html) attribute |
| `ablunit.profilerOptions.traceFilter` | | Comma-separated string that uses wildcard matching for any procedure or class you want trace (`-trace-filter <string>`)<br>See the [`PROFILER:TRACE-FILTER`](https://docs.progress.com/bundle/abl-reference/page/TRACE-FILTER-attribute.html) attribute |
| `ablunit.profilerOptions.tracing` | | Comma-separated string of procedure and line number pairs. A pipe (`\|`) separates the procedure name and line number (`-tracing <string>`)<br>**Example**: `test1\|32,test2\|17`<br>See the [`PROFILER:TRACING`](https://docs.progress.com/bundle/abl-reference/page/TRACING-attribute.html) attribute |
| `ablunit.profilerOptions.writeJson` | `false` | Output a json formatted version of the profiler output.  Filepath is the same as `abluint.profilerOptions.filename` with `json` extension. |

## Contributing

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](.github/CONTRIBUTING.md)

## Links

* [VSCode Marketplace - ABLUnit Test Runner](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=kherring.ablunit-test-provider)
* Progress Documentation
  * [Run test cases from the command prompt](https://docs.progress.com/bundle/openedge-developer-studio-help/page/Run-test-cases-from-the-command-prompt.html)
  * [Learn About ABLUnit Test Framework](https://docs.progress.com/bundle/openedge-developer-studio-help/page/Learn-About-ABLUnit-Test-Framework.html)
  * [ABLUnit Annotations](https://docs.progress.com/bundle/openedge-developer-studio-help/page/Annotations-supported-with-ABLUnit.html)
* GitHub Repo - [progress/ade](https://github.com/progress/ADE) - OpenEdge Source Files

Commit message:

Add functionality for test suite parsing (#59)

README.md, after:

# ABLUnit Test Runner [![CircleCI](https://img.shields.io/circleci/build/github/kenherring/ablunit-test-provider/main?logo=circleci)](https://dl.circleci.com/status-badge/redirect/gh/kenherring/ablunit-test-provider/tree/main) [![Maintainability Rating](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=kenherring_ablunit-test-provider&metric=sqale_rating)](https://sonarcloud.io/summary/new_code?id=kenherring_ablunit-test-provider) [![Coverage](https://sonarcloud.io/api/project_badges/measure?project=kenherring_ablunit-test-provider&metric=coverage)](https://sonarcloud.io/summary/new_code?id=kenherring_ablunit-test-provider)


This VSCode test provider extension integrates [ABLUnit tests](https://docs.progress.com/bundle/openedge-developer-studio-help-122/page/Learn-About-ABLUnit-Test-Framework.html) into the VSCode test explorer.

This is my first VSCode extension, and my first TypeScript project. I'm sure there are many ways to improve the code, and I welcome any feedback.  I'm also open to collaboration if anyone is interested.

Quality code, and thus unit testing, is my passion  I hope this extension helps others to embrace [TDD](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Test-driven_development) and improve their code.

## OpenEdge Versions Note

This project was developed using the [Progress OpenEdge Developers Kit: Classroom Edition](https://www.progress.com/openedge/classroom-edition).  That means it's only been tested against version 12.2 at the moment.  Feel free to report any bugs you may run into with other versions.

## Extension

### Features

* Run ABLUnit Tests
* See test results in VSCode Test Explorer
* View code coverage highlighting in the editor

#### Code Coverage Example Screenshot

![code coverage example screenshot](https://github.com/kenherring/ablunit-test-provider/raw/main/docs/coverage.png)

## Configuration

The configuration is broken into two sections.

1.  The first section shows configuration options that users are most likely to change.
2.  Additional configuration options available that are not likely to be change by most users.

### Configuration - Sample Config

This config searches the `test/` directory for test files, named `*Test.cls` or `*Test.p`.  It also passes a database connection to `_progres` via the `-pf` parameter.

**`.vscode/settings.json`**:
```json
{
  "ablunit.files.include": [
    "test/**/*Test.{cls,p}"
  ],
  "ablunit.params": "-pf path/to/dbconnections.pf"
}
```

### Configuration - Most Commonly Changed

| Setting | Default | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `ablunit.params` | | Additional options/parameters passed to `_progres`.  This is most useful for providing database connections. Example: `-pf path/to/dbconnections.pf` |
| `ablunit.files.include` | `[ "**/*.{cls,p}" ]` | Glob pattern array to include test files |
| `ablunit.files.exclude` | `[ "**/.builder/**" ]` | Glob pattern array to exclude test files |
| `ablunit.findAllFilesAtStartup` | `true` | Search all workspace files for test cases.  It may be beneficial to disable this for large workspaces, in which case the extension will find tests as files are accessed. |
| `ablunit.notificationsEnabled` | `true` | Enable/disable notifications |
| `ablunit.tempDir` | Extension storage area | Any files generated when running ABLUnit will be stored here.  It is also used for the [`-T`](https://docs.progress.com/bundle/openedge-startup-and-parameter-reference-122/page/Temporary-Directory-T.html) startup parameter |

### Configuration - Additional Options

| Setting | Default | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `ablunit.display.classLabel` | `classname` | `[ "classname" \| "filename" ]` |
| `ablunit.importOpenedgeProjectJson` | `true` | Import settings from `openedge-project.json` |
| `ablunit.progressIniPath` | | Path to a `progress.ini` file.  Exclusive to Windows. |
| `ablunit.tests.command` | `_progres -b -p ABLUnitCore.p <...>` | This setting can be used to run tests with any existing shell command your tests are configured to run with.  Example: `ant test` |
| `ablunit.tests.task` | | Use this task to run tests via VSCode |
| `ablunit.configJson.configPath` | `ablunit.json` | |
| `ablunit.configJson.outputLocation` | `results.xml` | Output location for the xml generated by ABLUnit.  Typically used with `ablunit.tests.command` |
| `ablunit.configJson.outputWriteJson` | `false` | Output `results.json` version of `results.xml` after analysis |
| `ablunit.configJson.quitOnEnd` | `true` | Quit the session when the test run is complete |
| `ablunit.configJson.writeLog` | `true` | If `writeLog` is true then a log file, `ablunit.log` is created in the current working directory and writes error messages to that log file |
| `ablunit.configJson.showErrorMessage` | `true` | If `showErrorMessage` is set to true then the error messages is displayed in a new window |
| `ablunit.configJson.throwError` | `true` | If ABLUnit is used as a library inside another program, set `throwError` to true, the framework displays the errors occurred |
| `ablunit.profilerOptions.optionsPath` | `profile.options` | See the [`-profile`](https://docs.progress.com/bundle/openedge-startup-and-parameter-reference-122/page/Profiler-profile.html) startup parameter |
| `ablunit.profilerOptions.enabled` | `true` | Enable the profiler<br>See the [`PROFILER:ENABLED`](https://docs.progress.com/bundle/abl-reference/page/ENABLED-attribute.html) attribute |
| `ablunit.profilerOptions.description` | `Unit Tests Run via ABLUnit Test Runner (VSCode)` | Description assigned to the profiler output<br>See the [`PROFILER:DESCRIPTION`](https://docs.progress.com/bundle/abl-reference/page/DESCRIPTION-attribute.html) attribute |
| `ablunit.profilerOptions.filename` | `prof.out` | Location of the profiler results (`-outfile <outfile>`)<br>See the [`PROFILER:FILE-NAME`](https://docs.progress.com/bundle/abl-reference/page/FILE-NAME-attribute.html) attribute |
| `ablunit.profilerOptions.listings` |  | Flag to output debug listings (`-listings`)<br>When unset (default value) no listings will be output.  When set to `"true"` listings will be output to the `${config:ablunit.tempDir}/listings` directory.<br><ul><li>See the [`PROFILER:LISTINGS`](https://docs.progress.com/bundle/abl-reference/page/LISTINGS-attribute.html) attribute</li><li>See the [`PROFILER:DIRECTORY`](https://docs.progress.com/bundle/abl-reference/page/DIRECTORY-attribute.html) attribute</li></ul> |
| `ablunit.profilerOptions.directory` | | The directory to which the listings files are written (`-directory <dirname>`)<br>When set to blank or not set the `${config:ablunit.tempDir}/listings` diretory will be used.<br> |
| `ablunit.profilerOptions.statistics` | `false` | Flag to output statistics (`-statistics`)<br>See the [`PROFILER:STATISTICS`](https://docs.progress.com/bundle/abl-reference/page/STATISTICS-attribute.html) attribute |
| `ablunit.profilerOptions.traceFilter` | | Comma-separated string that uses wildcard matching for any procedure or class you want trace (`-trace-filter <string>`)<br>See the [`PROFILER:TRACE-FILTER`](https://docs.progress.com/bundle/abl-reference/page/TRACE-FILTER-attribute.html) attribute |
| `ablunit.profilerOptions.tracing` | | Comma-separated string of procedure and line number pairs. A pipe (`\|`) separates the procedure name and line number (`-tracing <string>`)<br>**Example**: `test1\|32,test2\|17`<br>See the [`PROFILER:TRACING`](https://docs.progress.com/bundle/abl-reference/page/TRACING-attribute.html) attribute |
| `ablunit.profilerOptions.writeJson` | `false` | Output a json formatted version of the profiler output.  Filepath is the same as `abluint.profilerOptions.filename` with `json` extension. |

## Contributing

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](.github/CONTRIBUTING.md)

## Links

* [VSCode Marketplace - ABLUnit Test Runner](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=kherring.ablunit-test-provider)
* Progress Documentation
  * [Run test cases from the command prompt](https://docs.progress.com/bundle/openedge-developer-studio-help/page/Run-test-cases-from-the-command-prompt.html)
  * [Learn About ABLUnit Test Framework](https://docs.progress.com/bundle/openedge-developer-studio-help/page/Learn-About-ABLUnit-Test-Framework.html)
  * [ABLUnit Annotations](https://docs.progress.com/bundle/openedge-developer-studio-help/page/Annotations-supported-with-ABLUnit.html)
* GitHub Repo - [progress/ade](https://github.com/progress/ADE) - OpenEdge Source Files
